Managing the life cycle of data
is crucial for maintaining
performance and controlling
storage costs, especially when
dealing with time series data.
With CrateDB, you can design a
flexible approach to handle data
retention.
Policies can be configured to
manage data based on age, size,
or other criteria.
This ensures that your database
remains optimized and cost
effective.
One of the features that makes
CrateDB robust for handling
large data sets is its support
for table partitioning.
Let's take a look at the code
snippet.
We're creating a table called t1
with two columns, name and
month.
As described in an earlier
session, we are using the
partitioned by month clause to
split the data into separate
partitions for each month.
This partitioning strategy is
particularly useful for time
series data, where you can query
and manage data more efficiently
by working with smaller, more
relevant subsets.
When we insert data into t1, as
shown in the INSERT INTO
statement, new partitions are
automatically created for new
months on the first data ingest.
Moreover, when it's time to
remove old data, as demonstrated
by the DELETE FROM statement, we
can drop entire partitions
without the costly process of
index rebuilds.
This makes it very easy to
manage historical data and
ensures that our database
remains fast and efficient.
By partitioning data, you can
strategically remove outdated or
irrelevant data without
affecting the rest of the data
set.
This helps in reducing storage
costs since you only retain the
data that is necessary for your
business needs.
Now let's take a look at how to
define a retention policy to
automate the process of purging
old data.
CrateDB can operate on a
cluster with a mix of nodes that
have different storage types,
such as hot for frequent access
and cold storage for less
frequently accessed data.
To define a node's storage type
within the cluster, you can use
node attribute storage attribute
for each node.
Retention policies in general
requires the use of partition
tables, which facilitate faster
data printing and management.
In this example, the Retention
Policies table illustrates how
to define retention policies
that will be later applied in
the CrateDB cluster by
orchestration or automation
tooling.
Inside this table, we keep the
information about: table schema,
which is the schema name of the
table, typically doc for the
default schema. table_name,
denoting the name of the table
to which the retention policy
will apply.
partition_column or the column
used to partition the table.
In our example, it is the month
retention.
Which specifies the period for
which data should be retained.
The strategy column allows for
multiple policies once the data
exceeds the retention.
One policy can be the
reallocation of data to another
node or a complete data
deletion.
The INSERT statement shows a
policy for the t1 table in the
default doc schema, where data
is partitioned by month and data
older than three months will be
subject to the reallocate
strategy.
This means that data will be
moved after three months within
the cluster, typically from hot
to cold storage.
In the next examples, we will
see how these retention policies
can be implemented.
The first statement shows how to
configure a partition on hot
nodes and later move it to cold
storage.
As the example suggests, the
created table is partitioned by
the MONTH column and the WITH
clause specifies that new
partitions should be stored on
nodes with hot storage.
Hot storage is typically used
for data that is accessed
frequently and requires fast
read write operations.
To relocate affected partitions
to cold nodes, one should use
the ALTER TABLE statement.
The PARTITION clause identifies
the partition to be altered
based on the month value.
Finally, the SET clause updates
the routing for the specified
partition, directing it to nodes
with cold storage using the
setting routing.allcoation.require.storage
= 'cold'.
Cold storage is used for less
frequently accessed data, which
can be stored more cost
effectively.
CrateDB's cluster automatically
initiates the relocation of the
affected partitions.
Once the settings are altered,
partitions are seamlessly moved
to a node that fulfills the
specified requirements.
Optionally, once the data has
reached the end of its
retention
and is no longer needed.
The DELETE FROM statement is
used to remove data from the
table.
The combination of partition
tables and retention strategies
in CrateDB enables efficient
data life cycle management.
By assigning partitions to hot
or cold nodes and setting up
automatic deletion, CrateDB
users can optimize their cluster
storage and performance.
Backup snapshots can be used to
archive old partitions.
Snapshots capture the state of a
table or a series of tables at
the precise moment it is
created.
Each partition can be backed up
and restored individually if
needed and therefore enables
another instrument how to handle
historical data that must be
retained but does not need to be
available in the hot or warm
database.
Snapshots are stored in
so-called repositories which
function as storage containers
for them.
A repository is configured with
a specific storage back end,
which could be Amazon S3,
Microsoft Azure BLOB Storage,
Google Cloud Storage, or a local
file system.
The selection of the back end
dictates the method and location
of snapshot storage.
For instance, when utilizing S3,
the snapshots are preserved as
objects within an S3 bucket.
To establish a repository for
storing snapshots in an S3 back
end, one would employ the CREATE
REPOSITORY statement in
CrateDB.
In our given example, we create
a repository named export_cold
and we utilize S3 as the storage
back end.
The WITH clause encompasses all
the requisite configuration
details such as protocol,
endpoint, access credentials,
and the name of the bucket.
Upon the creation of the
repository, you can proceed to
create snapshots.
A snapshot is generated with the
CREATE SNAPSHOT statement that
stipulates which tables and
partitions to include.
This statement can also
incorporate options such as
whether to await the completion
of snapshot creation before
returning control to the user.
In our example, we create a
snapshot for a specific
partition of the table t1.
Only the data from the partition
where the column date has the
value 2023-01-01 will be
included in the snapshot.
The option wait_for_completion =true
indicates that the
statement will not return until
the snapshot is fully created.
Restoring snapshots reverts the
state of your tables or entire
cluster to a previous point in
time.
This can be critical for
recovery from data loss or
corruption, or in our example,
to restore archived data in case
you need to analyze it again.
Here is how you can restore data
in CrateDB: 1) Restore a single
table partition:
If you need to restore just a
single partition of a table, you
can use the RESTORE SNAPSHOT
command with the partition
clause.
Our example shows how to restore
the partition for January 2023
from a snapshot named snapshot1
in the repository export_cold.
2) Restore an entire
table:
To restore an entire table, omit
the partition clause.
The second example with restore
all partitions from table t1.
3) Restore the entire snapshot:
If you want to restore
everything that the snapshot
contains, use the ALL keyword as
illustrated in the third
example.
This restores all the tables,
partitions, and possibly other
cluster metadata contained in
the snapshot to ensure a smooth
restoration process and CrateDB.
If you're restoring a complete
table, it should have a unique
name within the cluster.
Utilize renaming strategies or
schema replacement options
during the restore process for
any tables that need to be
uniquely identified.
This approach helps to maintain
a consistent database structure
and avoid any conflicts with
existing tables.
If you want to restore all
tables from the snapshot without
the metadata, you can use the
tables keyword.
In addition to table data, you
can also restore cluster
metadata, which includes views,
cluster settings, and other
configurations stored in the
snapshot.
When you no longer need a
snapshot or if you wish to
delete the repository, you can
use the drop snapshot or drop
repository command,
respectively.
This helps in managing the
storage space and keeping the
repository organized by removing
obsolete snapshots and
repositories.
Remember that managing snapshots
and repositories should be part
of your regular database
maintenance and disaster
recovery planning.
Always ensure that you have
recent and valid backups, and
test your restore procedures
regularly to ensure they work as
expected.